Migrate badge text and create example files (#146)
vaadin/docs: articles/ds/components/badge/index.asciidoc

---
title: Badge
tab-title: Usage
page-links: \
https://github.com/vaadin/vaadin-lumo-styles/blob/v{moduleNpmVersion:vaadin-lumo-styles}/badge.html[Source]
section-nav: incomplete
---

= Badge

// tag::description[]
Badges are coloured text elements containing small bits of information.
They are used for labelling content, displaying metadata and/or highlighting information.
// end::description[]

.Work In Progress
[NOTE]
The usage examples for this component are currently in progress.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-basic.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeBasic.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

.Import styles
[NOTE]
Badge styles need to be imported separately.
The code examples show how to import them for Flow (Java) and/or Fusion (TypeScript).

== Label

> Badges should generally always contain a label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Badges should contain a label.
```

> Labels should be clear, concise and written using sentence case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels should be clear, concise, and written using sentence case.
```

> Aim for 1-2 words.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aim for 1 to 2 words.
```

== Icons

Badges can contain icons in addition to text.
Icons can be placed on either side of the text.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-icons.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeIcons.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

.Use icons sparingly
[NOTE]

> The benefit of icons in addition to a label should be weighed against the additional visual noise it creates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benefit of icons should be weighed against the visual noise it adds.
```

> === Icon-only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Icon-Only
```

Badges can also be used with icons without a label.
For accessibility, a tooltip and `aria-label` attribute is recommended to ensure all users can identify their meaning.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-icons-only.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeIconsOnly.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

Icon-only badges should primarily be used for extremely common recurring content with highly standardized, universally understood icons (such as checkmark for "_yes_"), and for content that is repeated for example in lists and tables.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-icons-only-table.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeIconsOnlyTable.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

== Theme Variants

Badge features theme variants for different sizes, colors, and shapes.

> You can combine any theme variants freely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can combine any theme variants together.
```

=== Size

> There are two different sizes you can use for badges: the default (normal) and `small`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Badges have two different sizes you can use: the default (normal) and `small`.
```

Use the `small` theme variant to make a badge smaller, for example when space is limited or for compact parts of the UI.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-size.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeSize.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

=== Color

Badges have four different color variants: default, `success`, `error` and `contrast`.

> In addition, they can be paired with the `primary` theme variant for additional emphasis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The color variants can be paired with the `primary` theme variant for additional emphasis.
```

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-color.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeColor.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

|===
|Variant |Theme name |Usage recommendations

|Normal
|
|Default style.
Recommended for informational messages.
Note that this style may be confused with a Button or link.

|Success
|`Success`

> |Highlight positive outcomes, such as when a task or operation is successfully completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Highlight positive outcomes, such as when a task or operation is completed.
```

|Error
|`Error`
|Use the error theme variant to communicate alerts, failures, or warnings.

|Contrast
|`Contrast`
|A high-contrast version that improves legibility and distinguishes the badge from the rest of the UI.
Recommended for neutral badges (that don’t communicate success or errors).

|Primary
|`Primary`
|Used for important information and/or to draw extra attention to your badge.
Can be combined with all other theme variants.

|===

.Accessibility
[NOTE]
Assistive technologies, such as screen readers, interpret badges solely based on their content.
Without proper context, they may end up confusing the user.

> If you’re using colors and icons to convey information, provide the same info via `aria-label` to ensure screen readers can interpret the info correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re using colors and icons to convey information, provide the same info via `aria-label` to ensure screen readers can interpret the info.
```

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-interactive.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeInteractive.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

=== Counter

Badges can be used as counters, for example, to show the number of unread/new messages, selection count, etc.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/badge/badge-counter.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/badge/BadgeCounter.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

Assistive technologies, such as screen readers, interpret badges solely based on their content.
Without proper context, they may end up confusing the user.
Consider the last item in the example above. For sighted users, it’s clear something requires their attention.
To make sure it’s obvious for people using screen readers, set the badge’s `aria-label` attribute.

== Best Practises

=== Badge vs Button

> Badges and Buttons are very similar in appearance. This might lead users to think badges are interactive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Badges and Buttons are similar in appearance.
This might lead users to think badges are interactive.
```

> Placement, language, shape and color can all help mitigate any confusion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Placement, language, shape, and color can all help mitigate any confusion.
```
